# MicroRNG Software Kit

[MicroRNG](https://tectrolabs.com/microrng/) is a hardware (true) random number generator device that can be used in embedded systems as a reliable entropy source. It can interface with microcontrollers or microprocessors (mainboards) with integrated circuits and modules through a mikroBUS™ socket using SPI or 2-wire UART interfaces. It can generate random numbers at a rate up to 1 Mbps in SPI mode and up to 1.5 Mbps in UART mode.

This repository contains the MicroRNG Software Kit and utilities for using the MicroRNG device with Raspberry Pi 3+ or other Linux-based single-board computers via an SPI interface.

* [More about MicroRNG](https://tectrolabs.com/microrng/)

## Contents

* `MicroRngSPI.cpp` - API source code in C++ for communicating with a MicroRNG device over an SPI interface.
* `mcdiag.cpp` - general purpose diagnostics utility that interacts with the MicroRNG device for determining the maximum clock speed and for validating the communication over an SPI interface.
* `mcrng.cpp` - utility for downloading random bytes generated by MicroRNG device over an SPI interface.
* `sample.cpp` - sample C++ program that demonstrates how to use the API for communicating with the MicroRNG device over an SPI interface.

## Getting Started

To build and run the MicroRNG utilities you will need sudo access permissions on your Linux instance.

### Dependencies

The following dependencies are required to successfully build utilities: 

* C++ compiler
* git 
* make

The C++ compiler can be installed on Ubuntu with the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install g++
```

The git development dependency can be installed on Ubuntu with the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install git
```

The make development dependency can be installed on Ubuntu with the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install make
```

### Installing

* Download the project:
```
git clone https://github.com/tectrolabs/microrng.git
```

* Build the utilities:
```
cd microrng/mcrng
make 
```
* Install the necessary executables:
```
sudo make install
```
### Verify the MicroRNG is working

* Connect MicroRNG device to the target board through the provided SPI interface.
* Verify device connectivity with the following command (you may need to use a target board sepecific device path):
```
sudo mcdiag /dev/spidev0.0
```
* You may get an output similar to the following:

```
~/microrng/mcrng$ sudo mcdiag /dev/spidev0.0 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
--- TectroLabs - mcdiag - MicroRNG diagnostics utility Ver 1.0  ---
--- Use with RPI 3+ or other Linux-based single-board computers ---
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Opening device /dev/spidev0.0 ----------------------------- Success
Identifying device /dev/spidev0.0 --------------  MicroRNG detected
Identifying maximum SPI clock frequency --------------- 31000000 Hz
New SPI clock frequency ------------------------------- 31000000 Hz
Retrieving 32000 random bytes ----------------------------- Success
Retrieving 32000 RAW random bytes ------------------------- Success
Retrieving 32000 random bytes ----------------------------- Success
Shutting down RNG ----------------------------------------- Success
Starting RNG up ------------------------------------------- Success
Computing SPI transfer speed ----------------------------  497 kbps
Validating MicroRNG internal status  ---------------------- Healthy
```

## Authors

Andrian Belinski  
